the World Health Organization and the
Palestinian red cresant are sounding the
alarm about the state of hospitals in
the Gaza Strip wh says there are no
functional hospitals left in Northern
Gaza leaving 800,000 Palestinians
deprived of Medical
Services on nebal farak is the Palestine
red cresant media and communication
officer joins us now from rala let's
start first of all with what's happening
to your facilities and offices in Gaza I
understand they're under siege could you
clarify good morning thanks for having
me unfortunately this is the second day
our teams at um the ambulance Center the
palestin rod Crescent ambulance Center
in jabalia are still under Peg our
Center is completely ped and um there's
a artillary shelling and tense artillery
shelling that is continuous since
yesterday a along with gunfire from
Israeli occupation forces snipers and
there is no way anyone can go out of the
center the the safety of our teams is at
risk there is around 127 people who are
trapped inside our ambulance Center
including paramedics volunteers their
families and 22 injured person just to
clarify nebal has your Center itself
come on under attack has it been sniper
or hit by
shelling no but um as I mentioned the
area where the center is located is
completely dangerous there is no way
anyone can go out of the center anyone
is trying to move at that area is under
the target of Israeli snipers along with
the artillery shelling that that is not
stopping it's just continuous however we
are still providing our Medical Services
inside our medical uh post which was
established a month ago to continue
providing Medical Services to the
wounded people in the area of jabalia
which is under a constant bombardment
and unfortunately as you just
highlighted now there is no leftover
hospitals in north of Gaza not even a
single hospital is operating all
hospitals went out of service due to
bombardment direct and intentional
attack of Israeli occupation forces for
hospitals bombing the hospitals along
with presing the hospitals and arresting
the medical teams of the hospitals up to
this moment there is around almost a 100
medical team is arrested by Israeli
occupation forces including the
directors of many hospitals Nal let me
ask you this have you been in touch with
Israeli author authorities and ask them
to Cease the fire that is besieging your
people I think you said they've been
locked down inside the center for the
second day today have you been in touch
with Israeli authorities if so what kind
of response do you
get the Palestine red Cresent has no
coordination with the Israeli occupation
forces we coordinate with our partners
at the international uh Committee of the
Red Cross to coordinate our safe access
unfortunately since the beginning of
this war our teams are facing great
challenges conducting their humanitarian
role even reaching the wounded people
which we need safe access so basically
we coordinate our safe access through
the icrc unfortunately the icrc is
unable to coordinate our safe access
that's why we're getting off dozens of
desperate calls from people who are
trapped in their homes with people who
are killed or even injured and
unfortunately our teams are unable to
reach to them not even any other
emergency medical service provider or
rescue team and now our teams are even
trapped inside our ambulance Center and
unfortunately this is the case it's not
only the case because we also under
direct attack this happened for us for
our team in Gaza City we had Al KS
Hospital which has shot down due to
Israeli bombardment direct attack on the
hospital open fire at the Intensive Care
Unit and pring the hospital until the
moment we have to go out of service and
unfortunately the hospital was shut down
up to this moment at least four uh
colleagues four paramedics were killed
where they were on a duty along with
other 28 paramedics were uh injured
while the international humanitarian law
ensures safe um access to paramedics and
healthcare workers unfortunately our
teams are being targeted intentionally
by Israel occupation
forces all right thanks so
much